.\"  @(#)ivs_replay.1 3.3 94/1/6 SMI
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1994 by INRIA Sophia-Antipolis
.\"
.TH IVS_REPLAY 1 "6 January 1994
.SH NAME
.B ivs_replay
\- play an ivs audio/video clip or broadcast a recorded ivs session.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ivs_replay
[
.B \-autostart
] [
\fIaddr\fR[/\fIvideo_port\fR]
] [
.B \-t \fIttl\fR
]
.B \-clip
\fIfilename\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This tool can play a local audio/video ivs encoded clip to the audio
device and displays video in a window on the screen. ivs_replay can
also broadcast a recorded distant ivs session in the same way the
session has been received for the first time. To receive the
broadcast, first run ivs with the same \fIaddr/video_port\fR
parameters than ivs_record. Then, click on \fIPush to play\fR to start
the broadcast.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP 10
.B \-autostart
In this mode, replay starts automatically and no control panel is displayed.
.LP
.TP 10
.B \fIaddr\fR[/\fIvideo_port\fR]
Set the target ivs destination. You can specify a multicast address, an unicast
address or a hostname. IP multicast address are in the range 224.0.0.0 
to 239.255.255.255, but IANA has designated 64K block of addresses 
for multimedia conferencing: 224.2.0.0 - 224.2.255.255.
Three UDP port numbers are used : one for each data 
flow (video, audio, control). The
\fIaudio port\fR is \fIvideo_port + 1\fR and the control port is 
\fIvideo_port + 2\fR. Default \fIvideo port\fR is \fI2232\fR in
multicast mode and \fI2235\fR in unicast mode. 
.LP
.TP 10
.B \-t \fIttl\fR
Set the multicast time-to-live to \fIttl\fR.
Default value is 16.
.LP
.TP 10
.B \-clip \fIfilename\fR
Specifies the ivs encoded clip to play or broadcast.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ivs(1),
.BR ivs_record(1).

.SH "AUTHOR"
Thierry Turletti (turletti@sophia.inria.fr) of RODEO Project, INRIA Sophia
Antipolis, FRANCE.
