.\"  @(#)ivs_record.1 3.3 94/3/2 SMI
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1994 by INRIA Sophia-Antipolis
.\"
.TH IVS_RECORD 1 "3 March 1994
.SH NAME
.B ivs_record
- write audio/video-data in a file from one ivs participant or all the
participants from an ivs session.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ivs_record
\fIaddr_from\fR[/\fIvideo_port\fR]
[
.B \-nofir
] [
.B \-only \fIhostname\fR
]
.B \-clip \fIfilename\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This tool records in a file an audio/video clip locally from one ivs
participant or at distance all the participants from an ivs session. 

To start a recording, click on the
.B "Push to start recording"
button. As soon as the button 
.B "Push to stop recording"
appears, the recording begins. You
may concatenate several sequences using the same clip name. A clip
may be deleted by clicking on the "clear " button. A "Pause" button
allows you to stop temporarely the replay. Just click on the "Cont"
button to continue the decoding.
.LP
A local clip recorded with 
.B ivs_record
can be sent via e-mail using metamail (MIME) programs. To do this,
you have to append the line \fI"application/x-ivs; ivs_replay -clip %s"\fR
in your mailcap file; see metamail(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP 10
.B \-only \fIhostname\fR
In this mode, only the \fIhostname\fR participant in the multicast
group is recorded. You can specify the \-nofir option if you don't
want to wait for the first full intra video packet received to start the
recording. A clip recorded using this mode should be replayed like a classic
unicast recorded clip, i.e. without the \fIaddr\fR[/\fIvideo_port\fR]
replay option.
.LP
.TP 10
.B \fIaddr_from\fR[/\fIvideo_port\fR]
Set the target ivs source. You can specify a multicast address, an unicast
address or a hostname. IP multicast address are in the range 224.0.0.0 
to 239.255.255.255, but IANA has designated 64K block of addresses 
for multimedia conferencing: 224.2.0.0 - 224.2.255.255. 
Three UDP port numbers are used : one for each data 
flow (video, audio, control). The
\fIaudio port\fR is \fIvideo_port + 1\fR and the control port is 
\fIvideo_port + 2\fR. Default \fIvideo port\fR is \fI2232\fR in
multicast mode and \fI2235\fR in unicast mode. 
.LP
.TP 10
\-nofir
Do not request a Full Intra Image (FIR) before starting the record. By
default, a FIR is sent to the targer participant when only there is
only one participant to record (unicast mode or \fIonly\fR option used.
.LP
.TP 10
.B \-clip \fIclipname\fR
Specify the output clip name.
.SH "NOTES"
.LP
Each ivs video clip includes a header which encodes the version of the
ivs tool. In order not to remove this header, always use the ``Clear''
button to clear a clip.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR metamail(1),
.BR ivs(1),
.BR ivs_replay(1).
.SH "AUTHOR"
Thierry Turletti (turletti@sophia.inria.fr) of RODEO Project, INRIA Sophia
Antipolis, FRANCE.
