.\"  @(#)ivs_gw.1 3.3 94/1/5 SMI
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1994 by INRIA Sophia-Antipolis
.\"
.TH IVS_GW 1 "5 January 1994
.SH NAME
.B ivs_gw
 RTP\-level gateway for \fIIVS\fR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ivs_gw
\fIsourceA\fR[/\fIvideo_portA\fR]
\fIsourceB\fR[/\fIvideo_portB\fR]
[
.B \-t
.I ttl
] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B ivs_gw
is a RTP translator for the IVS application. It can be used for
example to merge two different conferences or in conjunction with
firewalls.  Firewalls will not let any IP packet pass.
Two \fIivs_gw\fR are installed, one on either side of the
firewall, the outside one funneling all multicast packets received
through the secure connection to the translator inside the firewall.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP 10
\fIsourceA\fR[/\fIvideo_portA\fR]
Set the first source address and port number. You can specify a
multicast address, an unicast address or a hostname. IP multicast
address are in the range 224.0.0.0 to 239.255.255.255, but IANA has 
designated 64K block of addresses for multimedia conferencing: 
224.2.0.0 - 224.2.255.255. 
Three UDP port numbers are used, one for each data flow (video, audio,
control). The \fIaudio port\fR is \fIvideo_port + 1\fR and the control port is 
\fIvideo_port + 2\fR. Default \fIvideo port\fR is \fI2232\fR in
multicast mode and \fI2235\fR in unicast mode.
.LP
.TP 10
\fIsourceB\fR[/\fIvideo_portB\fR]
Set the second source address and port number.
.LP
.TP 10
.B \-t \fIttl\fR
Set the multicast time-to-live to \fIttl\fR.
.SH NOTES
.LP
Translators such as \fIivs_gw\fR do not restore timing and do not mix
packets from different sources.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The NACK, FIR and QoS reports are directly sent from ivs decoders to
ivs coders and not through the ivs_gw.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I ``RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Application''
(H. Schulzrinne\/S.Casner), October 20th 1993, Audio-Video
Transport WG, Internet-Draft,
.BR ivs (1).
.SH "AUTHOR"
Thierry Turletti <turletti@sophia.inria.fr>.
