.\"  @(#)ivs_record.1 2.1 93/21/1 SMI
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1992 by INRIA Sophia-Antipolis
.\"
.TH IVS_RECORD 1 "4 May 1993
.SH NAME
.B ivs_record
- write audio/video-data of an ivs participant to file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ivs_record
[
.B \-I
.I multicast address
] [
.B -nofir
] [
.B { \-m | \-u }
.I hostname
]
.I clipname

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This command records an ivs audio/video station to the specified
file \fIclipname\fR. You need to start
.B ivs
prior to recording the clip. Recording requires that the ivs
participant is being encoding video, audio encoding is optional.

To start a recording, click on the
.B "Push to start recording"
button. As soon as the button 
.B "Push to stop recording"
appears, the recording begins. You
may concatenate several sequences using the same clip name. A clip
may be deleted by clicking on the "clear " button.

A clip recorded with 
.B ivs_record
can be sent via e-mail using metamail (MIME) programs. To do this,
you have to append the line \fI"application/x-ivs; ivs_replay %s"\fR
in your mailcap file; see metamail(1).


.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP 10
.B \-I \fImulticast address\fR 
Change the multicast address. You can specify an IP multicast
address in the range 224.0.0.0 to 239.255.255.255. By default this
address is read from the default file 
.B .videoconf.default
or, if there is no default file, the address is set to 224.8.8.8.
.TP 10
.B \-nofir
Does not send and wait for a full intra video packet to start recording.
.TP 10
.B \-m \fIhostname\fR
Specify the hostname to record. When you don't use this option, the local
hostname is taken by default.
.TP 10
.B \-u \fIhostname\fR
Set the recorder in unicast mode and specify the hostname to record.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR metamail(1),
.BR ivs(1),
.BR ivs_replay(1).


.SH "AUTHOR"
Thierry Turletti (turletti@sophia.inria.fr) of RODEO Project, INRIA Sophia
Antipolis, FRANCE.
